My name is Joshua Pennington,
and I'm an engineer on the
Interface Builder team.
And today,
we're going to talk about how you
can adopt Storyboards in your app.
We're going to cover
a couple topics today.
I'm going to start out by giving
you a quick overview of Storyboards.
Then my colleague Tony is going
to come up here and talk about
how you can adopt Storyboards in
applications that use CoderZibs.
And then I'm going to finish
by talking about some great new
features for Storyboards in iOS 6.
Let's start with the basics.
This is a Storyboard.
And a Storyboard allows you to view your
app's entire user interface in one place.
And you can also view the transitions
between the parts of your application,
so you can very quickly get
an overview of the application
just by glancing at it.
And there are two main
concepts in a Storyboard.
The first concept is that of a Scene.
A Scene is a view controller.
And it can represent the
entire screen in your app or
just one major component area,
like a split view pane in a
split view controller on iPad.
And you can drag in views.
You can select things and resize them.
You can inspect their
attributes in the inspector.
So all of the normal interface
builder affordances are present here.
And this is where you're going to
spend most of your time flushing
out the UI of your application.
So that's the first concept, a Scene.
The second concept is that of a Segway.
A Segway defines navigation
in your Storyboard.
Shows you how to get from point A to B.
And you create a Segway by
picking an event source,
like a button or a table view cell,
and then choosing the Scene that
you would like to transition to.
[Transcript missing]
Now, another important concept
in an application is
passing information around.
I have this list of events,
and when the user taps
on one of the events,
I want it to display a map view
controller that shows the event.
In defining this navigation
in the Storyboard as a breeze,
we just create a segue from the cell
to the scene that we want to display.
When this Segway runs,
what we want to do is pass
some information along so
we can know what to display.
We've got a method for that.
Prepare for Segway.
This is a method on UI View Controller,
and it's intended to be overridden.
We'll give it a call on
the Source View Controller,
and you can write code here that will
take effect whenever the Segway fires.
So, whenever the Segway runs,
we'll call that method,
and you can pass along any
information that you need to display
in the Destination View Controller.
So, let's take a look at what this
looks like inside of an application.
All right, so let's open that up.
Let's go into full screen mode.
And here in my Storyboard,
I have three scenes.
The first scene is a
navigation controller.
This is a standard UIKit object
that manages a stack of view
controllers that have been presented,
and then also manages the
transition between these scenes
with a nice push animation.
It also draws the nav bar at the top
that gives us a title and a back button.
The second scene is a list of events.
And I'm using a table view for this.
And so at runtime,
I have some code that looks in a database
and it makes a number of copies of
this prototype cell that I've defined.
We'll talk more about
table views in a bit.
And the last scene I have
is a map view controller.
And you'll notice if I zoom in here,
You can zoom in on storyboards
and double tap to zoom back in.
In the left,
I have a Segway connecting the Navigation
Controller to the list of events.
This is a type of a Segway
called a Relationship Segway.
And it simply defines the
root view controller property
on the Navigation Controller.
And so this kind of just
bootstraps the process.
So when the Navigation
Controller is displayed,
the scene comes along with it.
The second segue connects the list
of events to the map view controller.
And this segue is linked
up to that table view cell,
so whenever it's tapped,
we slide across to the map.
What I'd like to do is add a second
scene that's going to display
information about the event.
I want to display the details about it.
And I'd like this segue to be
triggered when the user taps on the
little blue arrow on the side of it,
like the phone application.
So I'm going to create a new scene.
And I create a scene just by dragging
a view controller from the library
and dropping it on the canvas,
like this.
So I'm just going to give us a
little bit of room here and drag
out a new table view controller.
I can create a Segway by
control-dragging from the
TableView cell and choosing this scene.
You can see here that
it's presented a list,
and there's two sections in this list.
The first one says "Selection
Segway," and it has a number
of Segway types below that.
And this is called the "trigger."
So this would let me create a Segway
that's going to be fired when a normal
tap takes place on the TableView cell.
And we've already got one of these
wired up to the Event Map Controller.
The second section says "Accessory
Action." And this is what's going
to happen whenever the user taps
on the Accessory Action area.
And we want to create one of those.
So I'm going to choose a new Push Segway.
So you can see that we now have a segue
that's going from that table view cell
to the scene that we just created.
And we also still have that
normal selection segue wired
up to the map view controller.
So let's customize this
scene that we created.
I'm going to give it a title.
I'm just going to call it Details.
And I have a table view below that.
And table views come in two flavors.
We have a prototype-based table view,
which is where you have one
or more prototype cells that
you assign identifiers to.
And then at runtime,
you write code that asks
for copies of these cells,
which you then customize
with the information.
And this is fantastic for things
like news feeds or emails,
where you have a dynamic number of
items that you'd like to display.
The second type of table view
is called a static table view.
And a static table view allows you to
define the data set entirely in IB.
So for things like menus where
you may already know exactly how
many things you'd like to display,
this works out great.
It also works out great if you have,
you know,
something like details for an event.
I already know I have two
rows I'd like to display.
So I'm going to use a
static table view for this.
And I can change this table view
to static by clicking on it.
And in the attributes inspector,
changing its content from dynamic
prototypes to static cells.
I can select a cell and hit delete.
I can also command click on this
other cell and select both of them.
I actually selected its parent there.
Let me try that again.
All right.
And TableView cells have a
number of built-in styles.
I'm going to choose the right
detail style so we can get two
nice columns with information.
And I'm going to select
these labels on the right,
or on the left actually,
and type in some information.
I'm going to call this author name.
And for the second row,
this is going to display the date.
And while I'm at it,
I think that the style would look
better if it was set to grouped,
so I'm going to change that as well.
[Transcript missing]
So now when this controller is created,
it's going to be an
instance of that subclass.
So we've got this segue that
hooks up to this controller,
and the controller knows
how to display an event.
We just need to give it an event now.
So we're going to use that
method that we talked about a
bit ago called prepareForSegue.
And prepareForSegue is going
to run on that list of events
whenever this segue is initiated.
So we're going to put some
code there that's going to pass
this event model object along.
And whenever you write a
prepareForSegue implementation,
you're going to look for
identifiers on the segues.
And the identifier is just a string,
so we're going to
assign one to the segue.
And segues are just like
any other object in IB.
You can select one.
In the Inspector, assign attributes.
I'm going to call this "Show Details."
And if I hop over to the subclass
for the Events View Controller,
I can implement Prepare for Segway.
I'm going to use the jump bar
to move over to that file.
And you can see that I already have
an implementation of prepare for
segue here that finds the event that
goes along with the cell that was
selected and sends that to the map.
I'm going to paste in another
fragment that does the same thing
but for the show detail segue.
So once again,
this just looks at the list of events,
finds the correct one,
and sets that on a property on
the destination view controller.
Let's hit Build and
Run and see what we have.
Okay, so we've got a list of events,
and when I tap on one of the events,
a map is displayed showing
the event's location.
I can hit the back button
and go back to the list.
And if I tap on the detailed disclosure
button on the right-hand side,
that second segue is fired.
We load the information and customize
it for the event that was selected.
So you can see that we were very quickly
able to create a UI for our application
using these two main concepts,
and using that prepare for segue method
as a glue to pass some information along.
And this is the basis of how you'll
build any application using a Storyboard.
So, I'm going to invite Tony up,
and he's going to talk about
how you can mix Storyboards
with existing applications that
are using code or ZIP files.
Tony?
Thanks, Joshua.
Good afternoon.
My name is Tony Ricciaardi,
and I'm also an engineer on
the Interface Builder team.
In the app Joshua just showed you,
the UI was implemented entirely
within a single Storyboard document,
and that document served as the
entry point to the application.
Now I'd like to show you a few ways
you can integrate Storyboards into
your app when you'd prefer to implement
certain parts of your UI and code.
First, I'll show you how you can
combine views from Storyboards
with views implemented in code.
And then I'll show you a couple ways
you can customize transitions between
scenes in your Storyboard using code.
Let's start with an example.
This is my game.
It's called Dungeon Plunder.
It's a retro role-playing
game that I've implemented
entirely in code using OpenGL.
In this game,
you explore this dungeon and you
collect treasure and you fight monsters
that you encounter along the way.
And today,
I'd like to add a new feature to this
game that lets me browse through my
character's inventory and see all the
items I've collected in this dungeon.
I'd really like to implement this
inventory screen using a new feature
of UIKit called Collection View.
A Collection View is like a table view
in that it manages a collection of cells
and also gives you a lot of freedom
with how you can layout those cells.
In this case,
I'd like to use a two-dimensional
grid layout like this.
In Xcode, we're making it very easy to
design collection views in
Storyboards with Interface Builder.
And so I'd like a way to implement
this new inventory screen with a
Storyboard and then wire it up to the
rest of my app without going back and
reimplementing all my old UI code.
So I can do that using
the Storyboard API.
First,
there's a class method on UIStoryboard
called StoryboardWithNameBundle.
And that just lets me load a Storyboard
document at any point in code.
And then I can call a method on
that Storyboard called Instantiate
Initial View Controller.
And that gives me a copy of the initial
view controller of that Storyboard.
The initial view controller is the
entry point into the Storyboard,
and it's generally the root
scene in your scene graph.
And that view controller I get back
is indistinguishable at runtime
from any other view controller that
I would create in code normally.
So now I'm going to show you a demo
where I integrate that new feature
into my app using a Storyboard.
Okay, so this is my Xcode project.
And you can see I've already added
that Storyboard to my project.
But I haven't yet wired it
up to the rest of my app.
And before I do that,
I just want to hit Build and Run.
So let me quit the simulator.
I'll just hit Build and Run so
you can see what that currently
does before I make any changes.
I need to do a clean build.
[Transcript missing]
So in this Storyboard,
I have three scenes.
On the left,
I have my navigation controller,
which controls the navigation stack.
[Transcript missing]
So that's all already been implemented,
and I just want to wire it up.
So I'm going to go over
to my AppDelegate file.
And now we're in
Application Did Finish Launching
with Options.
And in here,
I just create the view controllers
for my tabs and add them to
this array of view controllers
managed by the tab bar controller.
So I'm going to paste in
a couple lines of code.
And these lines just
use the API I discussed.
The first line loads
the Storyboard document,
and the second line creates a copy
of the initial view controller.
Now all I have to do is add that
view controller to this array,
and I'll hit Build and Run.
And you can see I have that third tab.
I can tap on a cell and see the
details using that detail screen.
So as I mentioned before,
I really wanted to have this inventory
screen laid out using a two-dimensional
grid instead of this single column
that I have here with a table view.
So to do that, I'm going to go back to my
project and swap out the table
view with a collection view.
First thing I'll do is delete
the table view controller.
And I'll open the library and drag
out a collection view controller.
So collection views in Interface
Builder are very similar to table views.
They have this notion
of a prototype cell,
which is this square you see up here.
[Transcript missing]
That's going to show an image of my item.
So I'll just drag out an image
view and add it to the cell.
At runtime when I create
copies of this cell,
I need a way to reference
that image view.
And I can do that by creating a custom
subclass of UICollectionViewCell
that has an outlet to an image view.
I've already done that,
and I'll just show you
that class really quickly.
So that's all we have here is a
subclass of UI Collection ViewCell
that has an outlet to an ImageView.
So now I'm going to go
back to my Storyboard.
I'll open up the outline
so I can select the cell,
and I'm going to give
it that custom class.
Now I can wire up the outlet
by control dragging from the
cell over to the image view.
I also need some code to actually
go and create the copies at runtime,
and that is all implemented
in my custom subclass of
UI Collection View Controller.
Let's look at that code.
So this method here is part of the
UI Collection View Data Source Protocol.
It's called Collection View Cell for
Item at Index Path.
And all I do in this method is
create a copy of my prototype,
which I reference using
a reuse identifier,
which I call inventory cell.
And then I just set
the image of that cell.
So I'm going to go back to
Interface Builder and give the
cell this reuse identifier so
that I can refer to it at runtime.
So the cell's already selected.
I'll just go to the attribute
inspector and call it inventory cell.
I'm also going to need to give
this CollectionViewController
a custom subclass so that that
data source method gets called.
Now I want to add a header view to this
collection view that shows up above
each section of items and just says
what kind of items are in that section,
like weapons, armor, potions.
And I'm going to do that the
same way I designed the cell.
So in Interface Builder,
we also have the notion of a prototype
section header view for collection
views that use a flow layout,
which gives you that
two-dimensional grid.
So I can select the collection view
and go to the attributes inspector
and give it a section header.
I'm just going to add a
label to that header view.
I'll give it some white
text so we can see it,
and I'll make it a little bigger.
And now I'm going to do the
same thing I did for this cell.
I have a custom subclass.
UI Collection Reusable View,
which just has an outlet to a label.
And I'm going to go and set that as
the custom class of my header view.
Now I can control drag from
the header view over to the
label and wire up that outlet.
If we take another
look at my data source,
my collection view controller,
you'll see I have this other method here.
I'm going to show you a
tutorial called Collection View,
View for Supplementary
Element of Kind at IndexPath,
which creates copies of that
prototype header view I created.
And I reference it using this
reuse identifier inventory header.
So I'll go back and give that reuse
identifier to the header view.
Now I need to wire up some segues.
I want to make this
Collection View Controller the root view
controller of my Navigation Controller,
so I'll drag out a Relationship Segway.
And you can see when I do that,
I get a nav bar,
which I can give a title.
I'll call it inventory.
I also want to make a push segue
from the cell to the detail screen,
so that when the user taps on the cell,
they see those details.
So I'll select the cell
and drag out a push
[Transcript missing]
In this code,
all I do is set the title and image
and the attributes that's going
to show up in that detail screen.
So I need to go back and give
this identifier to that segue.
I'll just select the segue
and call it item detail.
Okay, now I'll hit Build and Run.
And let's take another look
at the inventory screen.
You can see now I've swapped out the
table view for the collection view,
but I still have all
the same data show up.
And I can tap on a cell and
see the details for that item.
There's just one more thing I'd like
to add to this inventory screen.
I'd really like a way to know where
I found this item in the dungeon.
Down the line,
I might be running low on potions
and I need to find some more.
And it might be useful to know
where I found this potion so
I can go look in the same area.
So I'd like a button that shows up on
this screen that I can tap and it'll
take me back over to this map screen
and show me where I found that item.
So let's go add that.
I mentioned earlier that that
map view was implemented in code.
So I need a way to wire up a
segue from my detail screen over
to that map view controller while
having it load its view from code
rather than from the Storyboard.
Well, it's actually very easy to do that.
If I set the custom class of a view
controller in my Storyboard and that
custom class overrides load view,
then at runtime when I reach that scene,
I'm going to execute
that load view method,
which loads the view from code.
[Transcript missing]
This first scene will represent
the Game View Controller.
This will represent the
Map View Controller.
And I'm going to wire up a third
relationship segue here for
the Inventory View Controller.
So let's zoom in on
the GameViewController.
As I mentioned,
I already override LoadView in
my GameViewController class,
so I just need to set the custom
class of this ViewController.
And I can just delete this
view since it won't be loaded
from the Storyboard anyway.
So now what we have here is a
scene with a view controller
but no view in the Storyboard.
I'm also going to
customize its tab bar item.
I'll give it an image.
There we go.
And I'll do the same thing
for the map view controller.
Delete its root view and
give it a custom class.
And I'll customize its tab bar item.
Now I want to add that button
from this detail screen over
to my map view controller.
Let's zoom in on the detail
screen and I'll add a button
and I'll call it location found.
I'll wire up a segue from
the button over here,
make it a push segue.
I'll rearrange these scenes a little bit.
So now I need to go back and
delete that code that previously
created the tab bar controller and
those two other view controllers,
and then load the tab bar controller
from the Storyboard instead.
So let's go back to the AppDelegate file.
I'm just going to select
all this code and delete it.
Then paste in two lines.
The first one loads the Storyboard
and the second one sets the tab
bar controller as the initial
view controller of the Storyboard.
I'm going to hit build and run now.
And you can see I have the same
functionality I had before,
but now these view controllers are
being loaded from the Storyboard instead
of using that code I had previously.
So you can see my map screen that
shows me my character's location,
and I can tap on an item and reuse
that same scene in the Storyboard,
create a separate copy using that segue.
And now this shows,
now using that to prepare for segue
method on my detail view controller,
I passed along the location of the item.
So in that example,
I showed you how I could combine views.
I could integrate this Storyboard,
this new feature for the Storyboard
into my app while still using my
views that I implemented in code.
And I could also load those
code-based views from the Storyboard,
which let me visualize the entire flow
of my application without reimplementing
the UI for those old features.
Now I'm going to show you a few
ways you can use code to customize
transitions between scenes.
Let's say I wanted to add a
game over screen to my app.
I wanted to present this view when my
character's life total went down to zero.
Normally, you would create a segue by
dragging out a connection from
the triggering UI element,
like a button,
over to the destination scene.
But in this case,
there's no UI element that's
going to trigger the segue.
I want it triggered by custom logic,
when I know that my character's
life total goes down to zero.
So I need to create what
we call a manual segue,
and I do that by dragging out from
the ViewController's icon in the
dock over to the destination scene.
And then in code,
at the appropriate time,
I can trigger the segue by calling
a method on UIViewController
called performSegueWithIdentifier.
And that identifier is
just a string constant.
I give the segue an interface builder.
Now let's say that you have a
scene in your Storyboard that
represents an error handling view,
and you want to present this
whenever there's a problem
communicating with the server.
Your app might have 300 different
places where you talk to the server,
and you need a way to present this
screen from an arbitrary line of code
where you might not have a reference
to a view controller and be able to
call perform segue with identifier.
So you need a way to jump to
this scene without a segue.
You can do that by giving
the view controller an
identifier in the Storyboard,
And then calling a method
on UI Storyboard called
InstantiateViewControllerWithIdentifier.
And that just lets you hop to any scene
in your graph without using a segue.
So before Josh comes back up here,
I just want to recap a few of the
techniques I showed you for integrating
Storyboards into your app while
implementing custom behavior and code.
First, you can mix views from
Storyboards with views from code,
either by loading a Storyboard
from code or by having your view
controllers in your Storyboard
load their views from code.
I also showed you a couple ways
you can customize transitions,
either by triggering segues manually
using perform segue with identifier,
or by jumping directly to
scenes using instantiate view
controller with identifier.
Now Josh is going to come back up here
and talk about some cool new features
we're adding to Storyboards in iOS 6.
Josh.
Thanks, Tony.
Thank you, Tony.
So, let's talk about some of the new
features in iOS 6 for Storyboards.
We've got a couple new ways that you
can use Storyboards in your apps.
And let's talk about View Controllers.
So View Controllers are an
essential part of any app,
and they're also that first important
concept seen in a Storyboard.
And they're sometimes used in isolation.
You might have one for an
entire screen worth of content,
and you'll use something like a
navigation controller or a tab bar
controller to manage the display of them.
However,
sometimes you want to display a view
controller inside of a view controller.
So if you wanted to do
this in some applications,
you might use it for something
like you've got Chrome around the
edge of a navigation controller.
So you can use view controller
containment APIs added in iOS files.
to achieve this.
If you wanted to do this today,
you would assign an
identifier to a scene.
You'd write a bunch of code to
make a copy of it and use the
containment APIs to install it
inside of another view controller.
But you have to write
a lot of code for this,
and you don't get to position
the view in Interface Builder.
So today, with iOS 6,
you can create embed segues.
You just drop in a container
view and wire up an embed segue.
And when your view controller loads,
you automatically have another
view controller inside of it.
And that's it.
There's no code for this.
Thanks.
I'm pretty excited about this too.
So let's hop over and
take a look at this.
And I've got this app I wrote
earlier for looking at information
about the gross domestic product.
I'm an economics nerd,
so I like this stuff.
And I've got three
scenes in my Storyboard.
I've got a nav controller.
You guys all know about that.
I've got a list of states.
And on the right-hand side,
I've got a detail view controller.
This is a pretty standard
master detail app.
And what I'd like to do is have
a map on that very last scene.
But I have this map view controller
that I always use in my projects
because it knows how to do stuff like
display a highlight region and display
annotations and a bunch of other complex
stuff that I don't want to duplicate
in every single view controller.
And I want to use this view
controller inside of that other one.
So I'm going to use the new
embed segue to take care of that.
[Transcript missing]
And let's take a look at that
subclass I'm talking about.
So I've got a pretty
straightforward class here.
I've got two properties.
I've got an outlet to a map view,
so we can wire up a map view.
And I've got another property that
specifies the highlight region.
And this just takes an object that
conforms to a protocol that has some
basic points to outline the shape.
So I'm going to go back to Interface
Builder and add a map view,
and we'll wire that up.
So let's hop back over to the
Storyboard using the jump bar.
And I'm going to drag in a map view.
I'm going to hook up
that map view outlet.
And so now we've got a
view controller that,
if I hit Build and Run,
would be embedded inside of
that container view controller.
What I'd like to do is pass
that highlight region along.
So I'm going to give that segue an
identifier and then implement prepare
for segue on the detail scene so
I can pass that information along.
So I'm going to click on the segue
and type in embed map controller
and hop over to the subclass for
the detail view controller and
paste in a bit of code that I wrote.
And what this does is it looks
for the identifier and it passes
along the detail item that I'm
inspecting as the highlight region.
And so this is just a model object
that represents the state and
it conforms to that protocol.
So I'm going to hit build and run and
we can take a look at this in action.
So you can see that
I have a list of states,
and when I tap on one,
the map view controller is installed
and displays the highlight region.
So we're able to very quickly
have a view controller inside of
another view controller and not
have to write a single line of code
except for that for customizing it.
So I'm going to hop
back over to the slides.
[Transcript missing]
I've got this application here,
and it has a couple scenes
that the user can navigate
through to create an account.
And when they're done,
they have the option to hit
Done and dismiss the form sheet,
or hit Reset and go back to
the beginning of the sheet to
re-enter in their account details.
In my Storyboard, it looks like this.
I've got a scene that presents a
navigation controller and a form sheet.
[Transcript missing]
And so we do this by
adding unwind actions,
which are a new type of Ivy action,
to your view controller subclasses.
And these serve the purpose of
declaring points of interest for you
to roll back to in your application.
So you'd add an unwind action
like done or reset to your
view controller subclasses.
And then we display these as destinations
in Xcode when you go to create a segue.
And so we do this by
adding unwind actions,
which are a new type of Ivy action,
to your view controller subclasses.
And then we display these as destinations
in Xcode when you go to create a segue.
And whenever you connect to that,
we'll display a list of unwind actions.
So in the case of reset,
I would connect to that and choose reset.
So now we have an unwind segue.
And when that unwind segue fires,
the first thing that we're going
to do is find the destination.
So we'll walk up the chain of
presented items until we find a match.
At which point, we'll call prepare for
segue in the source.
So in the case of the example,
the confirmation view controller
will receive prepare for segue.
Then the destination's
unwind action will be ran,
so it gets a chance to
prepare for the segue.
And then we actually
trigger the navigation.
So in the case of a
modal view controller,
we'd call dismissModalViewController,
and it would go away.
So let's talk a bit
about the search order.
There's a little bit to it
besides just walking up the chain.
So when the reset button fires,
we're going to start by asking the
source view controller if it would
like to handle the unwind action.
And we have a new method
on UIViewController called
canPerformUnwindSegueAction.
And by default,
this does the right thing.
So it just looks at the
receiver and checks to see if
it has implemented the method.
So in this case,
if it had a method called reset,
this would return yes,
and we'd declare it as the destination.
If you're doing something special,
like if you have a social network
app that has three view controllers
that all have the same unwind action,
and you've presented them in a row,
you can use the information that we
supply in this method to disambiguate
and return the appropriate result.
But for the primary case,
you don't have to do anything here.
So in the case of the confirmation sheet,
it doesn't implement reset.
So we know that this
is not the destination.
At this point, we're going to step up to
the parent view controller.
That's the navigation
controller in this app.
And it has a responsibility to search
through its presented controllers to
find a match for the unwind action.
So we're going to click on
View Controller for this.
And if you're using the
built-in UIKit containers
like UI Navigation Controller,
you don't have to do anything here.
It just does the right thing.
If you are creating a custom
container that uses the view
controller containment APIs,
you'll want to override this
and search your child view
controllers until you find a match.
So,
Navigation Controller is going to search
the controllers that it's presented.
It checks the next controller,
which doesn't implement reset,
so it returns no.
We then try the next one,
which has a method called reset.
So we're going to pick
this as the destination.
So at this point,
we need to actually get an
object to perform the navigation.
If you're using the built-in
kit provided controllers,
this method is already implemented,
so you don't have to think about it.
If you're creating a custom container,
you'll want to override this
to return an object that will
perform the appropriate navigation.
So whatever type of transition
is appropriate for your custom
container will be taken care of here.
So the Navigation Controller chooses
to return an object that we'll
call PopToViewControllerAnimated.
And at this point,
we'll call PrepareForSegue
on the SourceViewController
so it can fix up any state.
We then call the Unwind action on
the destination so it can customize.
And then we perform the navigation,
which causes, in this case,
Pop the View Controller to be called.
We'd do a similar search for the done
unwind action whenever that happens,
except that we'd go one more hop up
the chain until we found a match.
So, that's the theory.
Let's go look in the app and
see how it actually happens.
Okay, so I've got a project here.
Here we go.
[Transcript missing]
So I'm going to go to the reset
controller and paste in a bit of code.
With Unwind Actions,
there's just two pieces
that we care about.
We care that their return type is
IB Action and that the argument
is typed UI Storyboard Segway.
We look for these in Xcode
to add them to the list.
And whenever your Unwind Action fires,
you can do whatever you want in there.
You can pull information back
from the Segway because you
have access to the source or the
place that you're unwinding from.
And you can also fix up any
state on the controller.
In the case of reset,
I'm going to reset some fields
that the user has entered in
so they can start over again.
So let's add another Unwind
Action to the very first controller.
This is what's going to happen
when the Done Action fires.
And we do a little bit more here.
What we do is we access the
destination view controller
of the source view controller.
And that is the confirmation sheet.
And when I wrote this app,
I made a property on the confirmation
sheet that wraps up the account
information that the user's entered in.
So I'm just going to pull that
back and use it in the app.
And I also update UI to show a success
view so the user gets a bit of feedback.
So we have these unwind actions so we
can find places to unwind to at runtime.
So let's go back to the
Storyboard and add unwind segues
that target these actions.
I'm going to go back over here.
Go to the Storyboard.
And I can create the unwind segue by
Control-dragging to the exit icon.
And you can see that it's
populated that list with the unwind
actions that we created earlier.
So I'm going to choose
Reset for this one.
Then I'm going to do the same
for the Done unwind action.
So now, when I hit Build and Run,
we can take a look and see what we get.
So I've got this app here and
when I hit add an account,
I can step through the sheet here
and fill out the information.
And when I hit reset,
We slide back to that first controller.
So it walked up the chain of
controllers until it found
something that implemented a reset.
And then we ran the reset action,
and it reset any information
that was present.
So let's go back and do the
same thing for the done action.
[Transcript missing]